And Kuester, where the username we need to do something after the user was created here, because that's
important for creating a user with email and password.
We really can just stored that data.
But of course, once we got a user created, we can reach out to the fire database and store extra user
data there if you want to.
So we can simply go here after DFL statement, but still inside of the tribe block because the code
I'm about to execute should only run if this was successful.
Not if we had an error.
So here, instead of the tribe block, I will now use fire storm not based off, but fire storm.
So for that, let me import package.
Cloud fires, the word cloud firestorm, dot dart, the package I showed you a few minutes ago already.
And then after logging in or after signing up.
I want to use fire storm dot instance to store extra user data and actually not after logging in or
signing up, but only after signing up.
So let's move.
Does anybody else block this should only run if we signed up, not if we did log in.
So here we can now call collection to reach out to a collection and reach out to the users collection.
This collection doesn't exist yet, but it will be created on the fly.
So we don't have to create it ahead of time.
And then we can target a specific document.
And I want to create a document which uses the idea of my user as an idea.
Normally, if you add a document with the ADD method, a new ID is generated dynamically.
I don't want that here.
I want to use an existing idea.
I want to use my existing user ID as ID in this user's collection.
And you can do that by using the document method and then by passing the ID you want to use as an argument
to this method.
And here that's all the result.
Dot user dot uid.
So this author is Salt Object here has a user object which didn't has a UID field, which is that user
ID that was generated for the user by Firebase.
And on this document, we can then call set data to store extra data for that document.
This is just the identifier of the document.
Here comes the extra data.
Now, as mentioned before, the extra data you stored in a document is a map here in Flutter.
And you can have any key value pairs you want.
So all at the username key and the value is username.
So the value stored here in this argument.
And I will also store the email again just to have it there in this document as well.
And with that, we're adding a new user to the new users collection when we sign up a new user.
So we simply manage this extra user data here on our own Nosef.
Data returns a future so we can also await this year to then, for example, clear some loading indicator
if we had one or do whatever you want to do once we're done with that.
Before we manage any loading indicator, let me, however, safeties and actually delete this user,
this user account here just so that I can reuse this email address and then I'll sign up again here.
Now, if we refresh, this user will be recreated, but now if we go to database.
We'll see a new users collection here and in there we see one document with this idea, and in there
we have the email and the username.
So that's does extra data which was stored.
And now with that, just to finish up this authentication process, I think it would be a bit nicer
if this sign up button would be replaced with a loading spinner or maybe both buttons would be replaced
with a loading spinner whilst we're waiting for a result.
And we can easily add such a functionality by going to the off screen.
And we have a stateful widget here so we can manage some state here in off screen state.
BA is.
Is loading could be false initially and we want to set this to true whenever we start logging in or
whenever we start signing up, so I'll set state here at the beginning of the trip.
Lock and set is loading equal to true.
And is loading should be sent back to falls if we have an error, so here at the end of both catch blocks,
I'll call set state and set is loading back to false.
So let's wrap this and all edit here.
And it should also be set to falls here in the success case that we actually added this extra user data.
But we don't need to do this here because we'll soon navigate the users somewhere else anyways.
So we don't have to do that here.
Now, one thing we, of course, do have to do is we have to utilize this is loading state.
So here to off for him, I'll actually pass is loading.
And instead of off, we now need to accept this, so here in off forum, I add a second property, which
I want to get here.
Boolean is loading.
Which is set through the constructor like this.
And then in our widget tree, which is being rendered.
Here we can replace the race, but not the Flett and the Flett button with a floating indicator for
dad, we could check if is if widget is loading is true and if that is the case, I will render a circular
progress indicator.
And the race button should be removed, so if not widget is loading, this button should show up and
therefore it's removed if we are loading and I apply the same logic to the flat button here.
So the two buttons are only showing if we're not loading, if we are loading.
I showed a circular progress indicator instead.
So if I save this and click on Sign Up, you see the loading spinner and then here I get an error because
I already used his email address.
But you see that the loading spinner works.
That's great.
So with that out of the way.
We got that working, we got the extra data stored, now let's make sure that we actually move the user
to the chat screen if we are authenticated.